work on eePlumB instructions and gather mission-date list (#37)
rossyndicate/Superior-Plume-Bloom: docs/index.Rmd

You can also watch the first 2.5 minutes of [this video](https://youtu.be/QXJf9IAF1z4) to visually walk through the setup instructions. Note that the video was originally created for the "GROD workflow", which was the foundation for the workflow here, and you may need to substitute information that is specific for this project.

1.  Sign up for Google Earth Engine: <https://earthengine.google.com/>. If you don't have an affiliation, you can put University of Wisconsin-Madison.
2.  Using your Google account (the same one you made your Google Earth Engine account with), open up your [Google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/my-drive) and make a new folder in your drive to store data from the project. Please include your name in the name of the folder, ex. 'FirstinitialMiddleinitialLastnameData'

<center>![](www/images/newfolder.png){width="400px"}</center>

   3. Create two subdirectories within this new folder - one called 'val-test' and another called 'labels'.

<center>![](www/images/subfolders.png){width="400px"}</center>

  

> 3.  Once the folder is created, please share it with the group. To do this, you can click on the folder and click 'Whare.' Next, set Genera Access to 'Anyone with the link' and 'Editor'. Lastly, click 'copy link,' and paste the link in this [Google Sheets document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Sk7BuA92Mw4A3_ETialeQ9b1WPXK1TWkfDd8wsvVOFc/edit?usp=sharing) alongside your name and initials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  Once the folder is created, please share it with the group. To do this, you can click on the folder and click 'Share.' Next, set General Access to 'Anyone with the link' and 'Editor'. Lastly, click 'copy link,' and paste the link in this [Google Sheets document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Sk7BuA92Mw4A3_ETialeQ9b1WPXK1TWkfDd8wsvVOFc/edit?usp=sharing) alongside your name and initials.
```

<center>![](www/images/sharelocation.png){width="400"}</center>

<center>![](www/images/sharefolder.png){width="400"}</center>

  

## What are we labeling?

For this application, we want to be sure that the pixels that we label are *definitely* the label, which means, if you have a doubt about the class, don't label it.

`openWater`: clear, dark pixels with no cloud interference or highly dispersed sediment.

<center>![](www/images/openWater.png){width="400"}</center>

`lightNearShoreSediment`: yellow and light brown areas, usually near shore.

<center>![](www/images/lNSS.png){width="400"}</center>

`darkNearShoreSediment`: dark brown or red-brown areas, usually near a stream inflow.

<center>![](www/images/dNSS.png){width="400"}</center>

`offShoreSediment`: could also be considered dispersed sediment. Green-ish colored areas proximate to near shore sediment. It may often look 'swirled' in the deeper areas of the lake.

<center>![](www/images/oSS.png){width="400"}</center>

> `algalBloom`: this class is tricky! Technically, it is very hard to discriminate between off shore sediment or dispersed sediment and algal blooms in the imagery provided. In fact, it's so tricky, we don't even have an example for you! Please do use this label if you think you see a bloom.

Reviewer: > In fact, it's so tricky, we don't even have an example for you!

Perfect!

<center>![](www/images/cloud.png){width="400"}</center>

Clouds can look green or even black, too:

<center>![](www/images/cloudgb.png){width="400"}</center>

Sometimes the clouds are barely discernible, but the scene looks 'hazy'. In this case, don't label the haze, but do try to avoid it as you label other classes.

<center>![](www/images/haze.png){width="400"}</center>

`shorelineContamination`: usually dark pixels or yellow-brown pixels that overlap with the shoreline. The purpose of this label is for us to be able to add 'uncertainty' to some machine-inferred labels if they are also proximate to pixels labeled as `shorelineContamination`. Generally speaking, label things that might be 'confusing' for a machine to label because the color is similar to colors of a sediment plume. The easiest way to detect this is to turn on the 'Satellite' baselayer in the top right and toggle the 'Layer 1' option under 'Layers':

<center>![](www/images/sat_toggle.png){width="400"}</center>

<center>![](www/images/contamination.png){width="400"}</center>

<center>![](www/images/contamination_under.png){width="400"}</center>

> `other`: anything else that is present in the image that might be classified as 'other' or 'unknown'.

Author: yes yes! I'll find an image with a red boat. :)

## How to label: Part 1

The purpose of this step is to walk you through how to setup a script in GEE to be able to open an image before you actually label it. You will need to do this process before each new mission-date combination you are classifying.

1.  Go to the project [Github page.](https://github.com/rossyndicate/Superior-Plume-Bloom/tree/main/eePlumB/1_user_interface_script)

2.  Copy the appropriate `.js` script.

    -   If this is your first time through the tutorial, you will be working with the validation script: [`eePlumB_validation.js`](https://github.com/rossyndicate/Superior-Plume-Bloom/blob/5e9d0cd1ad435aa3bdb2f0d2b41c026c0f57c8ab/eePlumB/1_user_interface_script/eePlumB_validation). The purpose of this step is to have you go through the full process of classifying a few images for practice and to provide us with data to see how similarly all our volunteers classify a range of conditions. We hope that the examples below will help guide everyone to classify conditions similarly, but we understand that there will be variation as there is a level of subjectivity in this process.

>     -   If you have already completed the tutorial once using the validation script, you have made it to the main classification workflow and will be working with the classification script: [`eePlumB_classification.js`](LINK%20ME)

Reviewer: Are we at the point where we can link to the appropriate file and replace where I just wrote `LINK ME`??

Author: Absolutely we are, I didn't make it past the 'What are we labeling'. :) I'll be working on the remainder today!

Author: Updated in recent commits!
